{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-BoldOblique;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\cname textColor;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28600\viewh14400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 . Java provides selection statements that handle different actions in the program according to their given condition\
\
. The result of every condition is a 
\f1\b boolean
\f0\b0  value. Either the value is true or false\
\
. An if-statement is a program statement with 
\f1\b if
\f0\b0  as the condition-handler of the statement. If the condition is true, then the statement is executed. Otherwise, it is not\
\
. An if statement can be taken in two ways. An implementation like this is known as an if-else statement. The first statement is executed if the boolean expression is true. Else, the second statement is executed.\
\
. An if-statement can include other if-statements inside of it. If the first if-condition is true, the program would proceed to the next conditional statements\
\
.\cf2  
\f2\i Logical Operators
\f0\i0  are operators that are used when using two or more different conditions at the same time\
\
. There are three types of 
\f2\i Logical Operators
\f0\i0 : 
\f3\i\b and 
\f0\i0\b0 (&&), 
\f3\i\b or
\f0\i0\b0  (||), and 
\f3\i\b not
\f0\i0\b0  (!)\
  For example:	console.log(true && false);		=>	false\
			console.log(true && true);		=>	true\
\
. 
\f1\b &&
\f0\b0  returns true if the two conditions are true\
  
\f1\b ||
\f0\b0  returns true if one of the two conditions is true\
  
\f1\b !(
\f2\i\b0 condition
\f1\i0\b )
\f0\b0  returns true if the specified condition is false\
\
. Overusing if-statements can make the program difficult to follow. That\'92s why Java provides the use of a switch-statement.\
\
. A switch statement consists of various different case statements, and executes one case depending on the its given value.\
\
. The value given to the switch statement can be of any data type except 
\f1\b boolean
\f0\b0 \
\
. 
\f2\i Conditional Expressions
\f0\i0  are simplified if-statements that are found useful when assigning a value to a variable based on a condition. If the condition is true, the variable is assigned a value, and if the condition is false, the variable is assigned another value.\
\
. The console output can be formatted (displaying two digits after the decimal point)\
\
. Concerning GUI Dialogs, we can use confirmation dialogs which come with three buttons: 
\f1\b JOptionPane.YES_OPTION(0)
\f0\b0  for Yes, 
\f1\b JOptionPane.NO_OPTION(1)
\f0\b0  for No, and 
\f1\b JOptionPane.CANCEL_OPTION(3)
\f0\b0  for Cancel}